# Project-344
1.2MW Vetamamidi Mini Hydel Power Project by AP Tribal Power Company Limited

The proposed project titled under UCR is “1.2 MW Vetamamidi Mini Hydel Power Project by M/s AP
Tribal Power Company Limited”, which is a hydroelectric power project located in Vetamamidi Village,
Addateegala Mandal, Rampachodavaram Division, Alluri Seetharamraju District, Andhra Pradesh –
533428 (India). The project is an operational activity with continuous reduction of GHG, currently
being applied under “Universal Carbon Registry” (UCR).

Purpose of the project activity:
The project activity is a renewable power generation activity that incorporates the installation and
operation of single hydro turbines, having aggregated installed capacity of 1.2MW in the district of
Alluri Seetharamraju in Andhra Pradesh, India. This project is promoted by M/s AP Tribal Power
Company Limited. This project activity is also called as Vetamamidi Mini Hydel Power Project.
The hydroelectric turbine was commissioned on 15/04/2011 and declared the Commercial Operation
Date by Andhra Pradesh Eastern Power Distribution Company Limited, with whom the Power Purchase
Agreement was concluded.

The project activity aims to harness kinetic energy of water (renewable source) from Yeleru river to
generate electricity. As the nature of the hydro project, no fossil fuel is involved for power generation in
the project activity, the electricity produced by the project is directly contributing to climate change
mitigation by reducing the anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere by
displacing an equivalent amount of power at the grid, which would otherwise have been generated from
fossil fuel-based power plants which are connected to the Indian grid system.

The net generated electricity from the project activity is sold to state electricity board through the Power
Purchase Agreement (PPA) signed between the project developer and the AP Eastern Power Distribution
Company.

In pre-project scenario, electricity delivered to the grid by the project activity would have otherwise
been generated by the operation of fossil fuel-based grid-connected power plants and by the addition of
new generation sources in the grid.

Hence, project activity is displacing the estimated annual net electricity generation i.e., 3,900 MWh/y
from the regional grid, which otherwise would have been generated by the operation of fossil fuel-based
grid-connected power plants. The estimated annual average and the total CO2e emission reductions per
year, by the project activity are expected to be around 3,500 tCO2e.
